---
title: hdoj 1009 FatMouse' Trade解题报告
tags:
  - 贪心
id: 104
categories:
  - ACM
date: 2016-02-11 16:33:20
---

链接：[hdoj1009](http://acm.hdu.edu.cn/showproblem.php?pid=1009)
> # FatMouse' Trade
> 
> **Time Limit: 2000/1000 MS (Java/Others)    Memory Limit: 65536/32768 K (Java/Others)
> 
> Total Submission(s): 60482    Accepted Submission(s): 20335
> 
> **
> 
> <div class="panel_title" align="left">Problem Description</div>
> 
> <div class="panel_content">FatMouse prepared M pounds of cat food, ready to trade with the cats guarding the warehouse containing his favorite food, JavaBean.
> 
> The warehouse has N rooms. The i-th room contains J[i] pounds of JavaBeans and requires F[i] pounds of cat food. FatMouse does not have to trade for all the JavaBeans in the room, instead, he may get J[i]* a% pounds of JavaBeans if he pays F[i]* a% pounds of cat food. Here a is a real number. Now he is assigning this homework to you: tell him the maximum amount of JavaBeans he can obtain.</div>
> 
> &nbsp;
> 
> <div class="panel_title" align="left">Input</div>
> 
> <div class="panel_content">The input consists of multiple test cases. Each test case begins with a line containing two non-negative integers M and N. Then N lines follow, each contains two non-negative integers J[i] and F[i] respectively. The last test case is followed by two -1's. All integers are not greater than 1000.</div>
> 
> &nbsp;
> 
> <div class="panel_title" align="left">Output</div>
> 
> <div class="panel_content">For each test case, print in a single line a real number accurate up to 3 decimal places, which is the maximum amount of JavaBeans that FatMouse can obtain.</div>
> 
> &nbsp;
> 
> <div class="panel_title" align="left">Sample Input</div>
> 
> <div class="panel_content">
> 
> <div>5 3 7 2 4 3 5 2 20 3 25 18 24 15 15 10 -1 -1</div>
> 
> </div>
> 
> &nbsp;
> 
> <div class="panel_title" align="left">Sample Output</div>
> 
> <div class="panel_content">
> 
> <div>13.333 31.500</div>
> 
> </div>
<div class="panel_content">
<div>我的天，一道很简单的贪心题，然而一开始就TE，我还以为循环遍历太多，需要剪枝之类的优化，后来发现了两个地方的错误。。。好丢人Orz，，，</div>
<div>
<pre class="lang:c++ decode:true ">while (scanf("%d %d",&amp;m,&amp;n)&amp;&amp;m!=-1)</pre>
一开始是这里，忘记判断m=-1时结束输入，这应该是造成TE的原因；

第二个地方，是关于比例j[i]/f[i]的处理，f[i]可能为0，将其mods设为double类型最大值即可。
<pre class="lang:c++ decode:true">scanf("%lf %lf",&amp;a[i].a,&amp;a[i].b);
if(a[i].b==0)
{
	a[i].mods=DBL_MAX;
}
else
{
	a[i].mods=a[i].a/a[i].b;
}</pre>
嗯，就这么多，下面是完整代码：
<pre class="lang:c++ decode:true">#include&lt;iostream&gt;
#include&lt;stdio.h
#include&lt;math.h&gt;
#include&lt;algorithm
#define DBL_MAX 1.7976931348623158e+308
using namespace std;
struct food
{
	double a,b,mods;
};
food a[1001];
bool compare(food a,food b)
{
	return a.mods&lt;b.mods;
}
int main()
{
	int m,n;
	double ans;
	while (scanf("%d %d",&amp;m,&amp;n)&amp;&amp;m!=-1)
	{
		for (int i = 0; i &lt; n; i += 1)
		{
				scanf("%lf %lf",&amp;a[i].a,&amp;a[i].b);
				if(a[i].b==0)
				{
					a[i].mods=DBL_MAX;
				}
				else
				{
					a[i].mods=a[i].a/a[i].b;
				}
		}
		sort(a,a+n,compare);
		ans=0.0;
		while (n)
		{
			n--;
			if (m&gt;=a[n].b)
			{
				m-=a[n].b;
				ans+=a[n].a;
			}
			else
			{
				ans+=m*a[n].mods;
				m=0;
			}
			if(a[n].b!=0&amp;&amp;m==0)break;
		}
		printf("%.3lf\n",ans);
	}
	return 0;
}</pre>
&nbsp;

细节啊细节，c++中对数的处理和java中还是有些区别的，需要谨慎。

</div>
</div>